# Amnesiac
A Role-Playing, Thriller Text-Based Game


Overview of the Game:

The game is called Amnesiac, whose main character is Max. Max wakes up in a haunted house with no recollection of who he is and where he is. Max wakes up in a bedroom at the beginning of the game. There are 7 other rooms inside the house, excluding the bedroom. The other rooms are the kitchen, the dining room, Laura’s bedroom (who we come to find is his daughter), the basement, the living room, the bathroom, and the garage. In order to be able to regain his memories, Max can go around the house into the various rooms and interact with objects that will trigger his memories of who he is and his family. Furthermore, as he goes through the rooms, he looks around and finds creatures there which he has to attack to be able to survive. Before fighting the creatures, Max can interact with certain creatures before attacking, and some creatures he simply runs away from. It is important to note that Max can die if his health level is 0 before a creature’s is. However, in the case that Max does defeat the monster/creatures, when he walks to a new room his health is automatically back up to 100. Furthermore, when attacking, Max is able to use “potion” in order to gain the upper hand and gain health points. Around the house, there are various objects in the rooms with which Max has to interact with. These objects serve multiple functions. Some of the objects are purely there for him to use, or for him to get information from. Other objects are there to trigger his memories of his past life, where we are introduced to his wife Jessica, and his daughter, Laura. There are objects that trigger the monster/creatures, and these same objects can be used to defeat the creatures that they trigger. Max has to go through each room of the house, in order to interact with objects, regain some of his memory, and fight off creatures. After he goes through each room in the house, a key will reveal itself and instruct him on how to get out of the house. It is important to note that the game has a timer of 15 minutes, and regardless of whether or not Max has defeated the monster, if he is not out of the house then the game is over, and the user must restart the game.


Objective:

The game starts off by the character waking up with no memory whatsoever. The objective of the game is to cascade through all the rooms, interact with objects, trigger flashbacks and fight off different creatures in a haunted house. Doing so, will spawn a key that will allow the character to exit the house and instruct how to do so. As he goes through each room in the house, he encounters several monsters some of which he must fight & defeat, and others that he can simply run away from. After going through each room in the house, the location for the key will reveal itself with instructions on how to use it in order to leave. Moreover, as he goes through each room, he picks up objects along the way that trigger flashbacks about who he was, as he wakes up with no memories. These memories are his motivation for wanting to get out of the house, which he does when he regains them, walks through each room and defeat any monsters in it. When Max finds the key, he is then told where to go and what to do in order to be able to use it and exit the house, winning the game. The game has a timer of 15 minutes, and if the 15 minutes are up, then the game is terminated as Max is unable to escape in time and the user must restart the game. Also, if the user dies in a combat in the middle of game, the user must restart the game from the start.

Scenes:

The game supports various scenes. Each scene contains at least two characters and two objects. The first scene we have is a bedroom, which is where our main character starts off. He wakes up in the bedroom and does not recognize it or himself. He is then told that he has to inspect all the rooms after leaving the bedroom. After our main character leaves the bedroom, there are 7 other rooms in the house that he is in. There is the kitchen, the dining room, Laura’s bedroom (his daughter’s bedroom), the basement, the living room, the bathroom, and the garage. Some of the rooms contain monsters in them that Max has to attack and kill in order to be able to leave the room that he is in. These rooms are the garage, the bathroom, the dining room, the basement, and the kitchen. The garage contains a werewolf, which Max has to fight using a hammer that he finds in the garage. Moreover, it also contains a hammer that will trigger a memory of Max being a mechanic. Furthermore, we have two cars in the garage, which Max can fix up. In the bathroom, there is a ghost that Max runs away from, and there’s a toothbrush and there are writings on the wall of the bathroom, both of which Max must interact with. In the dining room, there’s a demon which Max must attack and there are two objects, a broken plate and a sword, wherein Max uses the sword to attack the demon. In the basement, there is a Mummy which Max encounters and simply runs away from. In the kitchen, there’s a cup of coffee that Max will interact with which will trigger a memory of him and his wife, Jessica. Furthermore, there’s a knife, which Max will inspect and then use to attack the creature that is in the room, which is the zombie. The remaining rooms in the house are just rooms with objects that Max interacts with, where some objects trigger flashbacks to help Max regain his memory. The rooms without creatures are Laura’s bedroom and the living room. Laura’s bedroom contains a teddy bear, which Max will inspect and a dollhouse which will trigger a memory of Laura. The living room contains a TV and a newspaper, both of which Max will inspect.

Objects:

There are various objects in our game, each serving a different purpose. We have objects that Max just interacts with and picks up, there are also objects that Max can use to attack the creatures he encounters, and lastly, we have objects that trigger flashbacks. In the bedroom, where Max starts out, there’s a mirror, which he uses to look at himself (and then not be able to recognize himself) and the doorknob which he will turn to leave the room. After exiting the bedroom, he is able to go to the other rooms. In the kitchen, there is a cup of coffee, which Max interacts with and which triggers a flashback of him and his wife. There’s also a knife, which Max later uses as a weapon to attack the zombie in the kitchen. In the dining room, there is a broken plate which Max uses/inspects and there’s also a sword which he later uses as a weapon to attack the Demon in the room. In the basement, there are no objects. Furthermore, in the bathroom, there’s a toothbrush, which Max interacts with and looks at, and there are writings on the wall displaying “You’re Next.” In the garage, there are numerous objects. There’s a hammer, which Max inspects, and it triggers a memory of him being a mechanic. Furthermore, he later uses the hammer as a weapon to attack the werewolf in the garage. Furthermore, there are two cars, a hummer and a Ferrari, both of which Max inspects, fixes and later uses at the end of the game. Moving on to Laura’s bedroom, there are two objects, a teddy bear, which Max just inspects and a dollhouse that triggers a memory of Laura. In the living room, there is a newspaper, which Max will read a headline about himself, and a TV which he will use the command pattern to turn on and off. Lastly, we have a key as an object which will he placed in the last room that Max was in. This key is spawned and collected in which he can use to start the car and driver off and finally escape this haunted house.

Characters:

There are two types of characters in our game, humans and creatures. The humans are: Max, Laura, and Jessica. Max is our main character in which the game is played through his perspective. He has to attack most of the creatures (there are two that he just runs away from.) Furthermore, Max has lost his memory but as the game progresses, certain objects trigger flashbacks that reveal that he has a wife and a daughter and that he used to be a mechanic. Laura is 7 years old, and she is Max’s daughter. She has a bedroom which has objects that trigger the memory of her to Max. Jessica is Max’s wife, and her memory gets triggered by a cup of coffee in the kitchen. The creatures in the game are: Zombie, Demon, Werewolf, Mummy, and Ghost, each of which is triggered by an object in a room. The zombie is located in the kitchen and has an attack power of 6, he can be defeated using a knife. The demon is located in the dining room and has an attack power of 8, he can be defeated using the sword. The werewolf is located in the garage, but actually starts off as a wolf that shifts into a werewolf. The werewolf has an attack power of 11 and can be attacked and killed with a hammer that is also found in the garage. The attack powers are indicative of how much they can damage Max’s health (which is initially at 100) and the same goes for the weapons that Max uses. Each weapon has its own damage value on each creature Max attacks. The Mummy and Ghost are in the basement and bathroom respectively, have an attack power of 0, and both don’t get attacked as Max can simply run away from them.

Sensors:

Three types of sensors were implemented in this game. The first sensor we used is the gyroscope, where we simulated a rotating motion as Max to turn the doorknob and exit the bedroom (by simply rotating the phone/sensor). We also used an device motion to simulate a running motion (by shaking the device) when Max encounters the Mummy in the basement and subsequently runs away from it. Furthermore, we used the decibels in order to be able to detect sound (speaking.) We implemented this sensor in our living room, where there’s a command for turning on the light. As soon as the command is displayed, it asks the user to speak in order to turn the lights on. This means that the sensors pick up on the sound and turn the lights on.

